I joined JP on Jan 2016 as Associate in Application security team. The team was responsible for managing blackduck which is open source scanning tool. I quickly understood the application and started contributing to improving the performance by upgrading the application to modern stack. Then I was promoted to Senior Associate the immediate next year.  The system was first a fixed scheduled run which caused immense delays for application teams to move forward with their production deployments. Then due to firm's strategic move towards integrated CI/CD pipelines, we had to completely redesign the system to meet several thousands scans per day and within 10-15mins. The legacy system used to take 8+ hours. I looked into the end to end flow, identified several integration points where the bottlenecks are which took lot of time and redesigned them to reduce the overall scan time. First exposed API to trigger scan in real time, second optimized the vendor scanning tool to publish scan results within minutes and finally leveraged event driven design to trigger the ETL process for aggregating and transforming the scan results for final reporting. This enabled 2000+ daily scans across 5000+ applications.This huge accomplishment while working closely with CI/CD team and several other stakeholders and leadership bought me visibility and appreciation. I was promoted to VP in 2019. The same year I was also selected for Expert Engineer program which is a flagship program run within JP where only 100 high performing technologists across the firm are selected and given training in technical leadership. Same year I got an opportunity to Lead APAC public cloud SRE team newly formed to manage the platform operations and ensure the platform availability, reliability while also assisting LOB customers in migrating their workloads to AWS. This was a global team running 24/7 operations. On the very first day after accepting this role, I had to face customers in a cloud party event. These events were designed for promoting application teams to migrate and adopt AWS platform. The platform was just made GA. I did not have any experience in AWS. I felt embarrassed in that first instance, that customers/application teams were ahead of me and I had little to no clue on that. Within 2 months I got full grasp of the platform and I was able to guide the team and customers in troubleshooting and fixing issues quickly. I was also able to identify flaws in the platform implementation and partnered with engineering team to fix several issues improving platform capabilities and customer experience. Soon I was considered SME and many US/UK application teams and SRE team members were seeking my help in resolving their issues. It went to the point that once an AWS consultant visited Singapore and he explicitly mentioned that one of the LOB team were heavily relying on Singapore team to help troubleshoot and fix their issues. While all this was going ok, the main challenge was we were seeing similar support tickets which were mostly informational as new customers started adopting the platform same queries and issues were being faced by them. So I proposed and built a self service system. The system read all the historical incidents, platform knowledge documents, FAQ's sanitized and stored in elastic search with indexes to be able to query based on service, description etc. This resulted in 50% reduction in manual effort  by significantly reducing support tickets and 35% productivity gain. This system was used both by customers and SRE team members across the firm globally. This contribution naturally promoted me to Executive Director in the year 2022. As the adoption was growing and we had both advanced customers and beginners. Each type faced different level of issues. So I was asked to handle premium support for 10 LOB customers/ application teams dedicated to help them in advancing and optimizing their cloud usage. As part of this I had to grow my team globally including hiring, mentoring/coaching to 15+ members. One of the customer was an acquisition made by JP who had their workloads on AWS but were using windows. The platform was supporting only unix based compute. This included several feature teams to enable windows. I played a key role in identifying the gaps, reporting to engineering teams and even sometimes having the team contribute to the platform features. This was very successful engagement and received lot of appreciation from all stakeholders involved. As part of this premium support, I realized cost optimization opportunities and collaborated with platform engineering team to build and enhance lightswitch capabilities which would allow customers to shutdown their compute (both ec2, rds servers) during off hours and bring back up during operational hours. Guided the application teams in optimizing their cloud costs by adopting lightswitch features. As part of this role also built several self service capabilities such as to automatically rotate/reset RDS passwords, cleanup orphaned resources on the platform avoiding unnecessary costs all while meeting the control requirements. In 2023 May the firm had a new strategy to enable Azure cloud. There was a reorganization and I was tasked to lead the same team and focus on engineering to enable Azure platform for the firm. Due to this reorg the higher management, many of the existing functional/engineering teams with whom I used to collaborate with had completely changed. It was completely new set of cross functional teams. The initial strategy was to have a disconnected Azure cloud platform, which did not have any direct connect with JP network except for the AD integration. So I was tasked to lead development tooling for the platform. Since it was not connected to JP, we had to build a complete CI/CD pipeline using Github as SCM, github actions for CI/CD, setup terraform enterprise for enabling IAC deployments. Although this was new te me and the team members, I motivated and guided the team. This was a good learning opportunity. With my guidance, the team was able to successfully set the entire CI/CD pipeline for enabling deployments into Azure cloud. This involved interactions with architecture team, security team, risk and controls team, broader Azure engineering team so to ensure we are all aligned and delivering as per expectations while meeting all control standards. During this phase I had lot of friction with the decision makers, often pushing back, not clearly communicating the requirements and never felt involved or appreciated for what we have delivered. While this was ongoing around 2024 March, it was communicated that the strategy changed from Azure cloud being disconnected to fully integrated and enabling hybrid cloud along side AWS for the firm. Due to shift in strategy there had been another ORg change. My immediate leadership changed. One of my peer became my boss. The team was highly demotivated because the effort put in was discarded. I had to keep them motivated. My team was confined to APAC region while other global team members were realigned to report to other manager.  We were asked to clean up any implementation or infrastructure we deployed as part of earlier effort. While we were doing this, there were lot of decisions made onsite. There was very less to no engagement with me. Had no clarity what was coming next. It was decided by leadership to build an accelerated platform for the firm. Firm stance was that AWS would be primary cloud and Azure was limited to AI/ML usecases. So the onsite teams were focusing on enabling landing zones, IAM, network, logging and security control policies for different Azure services enablement. I was tasked to build end to end testing for the platform policy as code and other platform components. I was given this task with no clear communication on requirements, timelines. I started engaging with product and engineering teams to understand the current state, the requirements for testing, expectations and timelines. There was no clear direction. The current management was always keen in engaging vendors, consultants for standing up the platform. They arranged a meeting with me and a consulting group to showcase their testing tool. I attended and understood that it served only for unit testing the Azure policies and internally it was using non public unsupported microsoft azure API. I highlighted this to management but it was taken in a negative way. I was insisting in building a comprehensive end to end testing capability using BDD behave framework. They somehow added it this to Book of work and assigned it to me and there was constant pressure and push back from the leadership. They put strict timelines for me to deliver this within 1 months time targeting 20+ services with close to 200 policies. I carefully analysed all the policies and convinced the leadership and cyber team that we will prioritize and handle testing for only high risk services and controls and the new scope was 80+ policies now.  I went ahead, guided the team in using behave (most of the team members were new to this. I had to quickly build the base framework and sample tests for a couple of services). The framework was easy to adapt, extensible and team members quickly got hold of it. We successfully delivered and produced test evidences within timelines. There were many issues unlocked and helped in delivering enhanced quality platform components and control policies. This took until 2024 Nov. Although we delivered on time I along with my team again were asked to report to my peer by my functional manager. But due to HR constraints I was made reporting back to my functional manager with my team reporting back to me. Later I was asked to focus on enabling chaos engineering for the platform. No clue why this was prioritized along side with platform enablement . I wished I could get involved into core platform enablement initiatives. I spoke to my manager, Product, engineering management regarding this. But I did not get valid engagement. They simply listened and took no action. All this was because of constant reorgs at two levels above me and no fixed direction or focus. I figured that they wanted to soon go to GA mode and also enhance platform to enable VDIs for the entire firm (which is very important firm-wide initiative) which convinced me that this is crucial piece of work. So starting 2024 Dec I engaged the team in this effort. Firm had already adopted Gremlin for AWS and other internal platforms. So I had to evaluate the native tool chaos studio vs gremlin. After evaluation and thoroughly identifying the pros and cons, gaps I engaged the firm chaos engineering team, cyber resiliency team, architecture team and got agreement from all of them go ahead with enabling Chaos studio for Azure. We enabled the service along with required security controls. Built chaos testing scripts, documentation/run books on how to leverage the service and shared the knowledge with broader teams including chaos engineering team ( different LOB), azure platform engineering team, platform SRE team. I led the effort of executing game days with comprehensive planning, engagement of cross functional teams, collaboration with global teams in production and produced evidence for several platform components. As part of this identified gaps in design, shared our findings, proposals for fixing those gaps and potential performance improvement options. This led to increase in platform stability, availability and resiliency. This also resulted in meeting the firm standard permit to operate control requirements and enabled in marking the platform as GA. After delivering this, I built trust to some level with leadership and due to yet another internal reorg they assigned me a platform wide initiative around 2025 March. The requirement was to capture and inventory all cloud assets in firm's system of record. This is an important feature for the platform to be able to manage technology lifecycle and configuration drift and also to meet regulatory requirements. This was already built and deployed by one of the platform feature team earlier. They handed it over to me as part of reorg. I took on this and led the maintenance and feature addition as new requirements came in. While maintaining I found the design not scalable as it was using Azure logic app for reading from Azure resource graph and publishing to event hub. An on-prem application would listen onto the eventhub, read it from there and publish to target topic from where the system of record would pick up. There were lot of integration points and there was no reconciliation happening. Also logic app was limited to inline node js scripting. Any enhanced processing of ARG queried data was unmanageable. Every time it was processing entire assets and publishing full feed. This meant it was not scalable and limited performance as the platform grows. So I came up with a new delta feed design, which instead of publish full asset data everytime, only would pick delta from the last run time, shifted away from logic apps to function apps with full python capability so we can maintain and scale to any future requirements. Also as the strategy was to align with hybrid cloud model I engaged with engineering and architecture team who was responsible for this on AWS and designed to cater to all such requirements which were historically identified for AWS. This design was approved by architecture team and led the team to implement as per the new design. It was thoroughly tested and deployed into lower environments. When we were about to plan to deploy to Production, yet another reorg happened and we were asked to hand this over to another feature team. It was pretty frustrating at this point in time but had to let it go. I engaged the next feature team, did knowledge transfer and they agreed to move it to prod. This enhanced design was proposed keeping in mind that Azure was proposed as second GA cloud and anticipating that the cloud usage and assets deployed would substantially grow in the future. But the VDI customer held the program indefinitely. Around Oct 2025 Management also decided Azure to be limited to AI/ML usecases. So the new feature team decided to keep the legacy full feed inventory solution running. As I handed off this I was asked to lead the effort to establish a continuous compliance environment. The requirement is to provide evidences of meeting control requirements before a service is enabled in production and also continuously validate the control policies deployed on the platform and ensure all ctc laid out service control requirements are being met at any time. As new controls are made effective by ctc teams from time to time, this should report any gaps to ctc, product and engineering teams so the relevant policies are built and deployed in a timely manner. As part of this initiative the plan was to integrate this validation into policy deployment CI/CD pipeline. I went through the pipeline and identified that it is fragmented, unmaintainable and the CI/CD deployment scripts were fragile and un scalable. How it worked was service enablement engineer maintains a separate repo for each service where service specific policies are developed and hosted. The service repo pipeline will simply package the repo and publish to artifactory. There is a central policy deployment pipeline where each service owner goes and registers his latest artifact so the next run picks this latest artifact and deploys to target dev, test and prod environments incrementally. The service repo does not provide any capability for engineer to test or validate his policies. Every time they have to publish, use central deployment pipeline to first deploy to lower policy dev environment, validate their policies ( what I understood is mostly manually or some were leveraging the test framework which I spearheaded earlier), if any issues identified, fix it in service repo, update in central repo with this cycle going back and forth until all are validated successfully. Also since it is central pipeline other service engineers also try at the same time leading to conflicts and blockers if one service policies fail until they are fixed. I came up with a new approach which is to develop a terraform module which individual service engineers can leverage to deploy the policies directly from their service pipeline to lower environments, validate thoroughly, produce evidences and publish complete working artifact to central repository. Then only update the central deployment pipeline capturing evidences so Cyber teams are assured before they approve and incrementally deploy to higher environments without impacting other service teams. This hugely enhanced the productivity from service engineer perspective, provided more assurance to cyber team so they can confidently approve the PR changes and avoided any conflicts between cross serivce product teams. Also to be able to automate the continuous compliance tests, I guided the team to develop test scripts using github copilot agents mostly standardized to fit for any service. This significantly reduced the time. Earlier developing a test script for one policy, validate it and produce evidence least took 1 day ( for developing feature file, write the glue code, update any back end code or configurations). Now with this adoption of AI, it takes less than 5 mins to build test scripts for the entire service policies. It achieves 80% accuracy and developer has to put minimal effort to update configurations. Once the test scripts are checked in along with the policy files, the pipeline is able to register the tests with a centralized testing service which on a scheduled basis runs the tests, captures evidences and provides a dashboard/report to cyber, product and engineering teams for easy monitoring and tracking.
