Hi Iam Saradag. I am a senior technologist with over 20 years of experience in driving and delivering enterprise scale multi cloud platforms enabling application workloads, data platforms and AI/ML platform. As part of my current role I am responsible for standing up and managing compliant Azure platform. As part of this I enabled 15 services with over 500 control policies deployed to ensure compliance and regulatory requirements. This led to enablement of 700+ GenAI production usecases delivering high business value for the firm. Prior to this role I led the public cloud SRE team responsible for stability, resiliency and operations of AWS platform supporting 1000+ production applications. As part of this role I initiated and delivered a self service AI based solution reducing the operational tickets by 30% and improvign developer productivity by 20%. As part of this I also drove a cost optimization initiative leading to redesigning of landing zones, introducing light switch and janitor capabilities to the platform. This initiative resulted in 30% cost savings across the platform. I have led global teams and I am known for influencing and collaborating with the globally distributed stakeholders. Given this experience is aligned to the current role, I believe I can bring in added value to the firms initiatives


As part of enabling Azure platform it was required to apply controls onto the platform in the form of policy as code using Azure policy construct. The policies were built and deployed in lower environments. But for achieving permit to operate and move to production ready state Cyber had a requirement to produce evidence of the control adherence. I was assigned to the task. But there was no clarity on what level of evidence and what all policies are required to be covered. The timelines were very agressive. So I setup recurring meetings with Cyber, risk and complaince and platform engineering functional teams, clearly defined the requirements. As a next step as the timelines were strict I analysed and came up with a prioritized list of controls to deliver the evidence incrementally, proposed this to all the stakeholders and got a consensus with the approach and plan. Also I had to quickly adopt a BDD framework which was new to the entire team. I had to coach and guide the global teams. The team quickly picked up and I was able to deliver the results within stipulated timelines and the platform was marked production ready by the cross functional leadership


We certainly had to build controls and apply them based on the application classification. The platform is designed to have a hierarchical organization/management group structure where depending on the different controls platform had to support like HCD, PCIDSS, NIST etc, the minimal mandatory controls were enforced at the root level. The remaining controls were applied at the children level dependning on the control category requirements. The business applications would be provisioned accounts under the appropriate org so only the applicable controls are enforced without impacting the business operations.
